Hello and welcome back to the course on par VII in today's tutorial we're going to create a realization
to portray the gender split in our customer base.
So let's go ahead and create a new tab here.
We'll just call it gender and let's get started.
So we're going to use a pie chart and then we're going to take gender Tregenza pie chart that we're
going to use customer I.D. and customer I.D. is very it's a very handy two tool to use or a handy column
to use because it allows us to understand how many customers we have in that in those groups.
And if you just click this dropdown because you'll see that it's automatically defaulting to count.
So it's not aggregated at a sama's on average.
So Part VI is smart it recognizes that customer I.D. is not something that you add up or you take an
average off.
You just need to count them and because in our dataset every single row represents a individual customer.
Therefore counting these customer IDs tells us how many we have in each of these groups so here we have
1000 849 of people here we have 2165.
All right so first thing we want to fix up here is we want to change the colors and because we want
to make them a bit more intuitive.
So let's set that into paying.
And that's this one too that's too light.
Look at this blue someday that maybe this can even be read.
It's totally up to you or what colors you would like to use.
It's way too dark.
So let's try a blue custom color or maybe hear something got.
So that's our first step and that way we don't actually need a legend because.
Because it is intuitive and we don't need to display a legend and that will save us some space.
And next is we want to replace this male and female so we want to actually show the percentages of people
in each group.
So here in detail labels instead of category let's select data value so you can select both if you like.
But again once again we don't really need to we can just select value increase the size here or maybe
make it a 12.
And what you can see here is that it's showing us the number of people rather than the.
So how do we fix that.
Well here we've got a hint it's saying data value.
So that means we need to fix up the actual data value that has been used for this chart and that will
allow us to see this as a percentage so we go into that.
So customer ID here are just counting.
But we want to add a table calculation so we want to take one point eighty five thousand and divide
by two points seventeen thousand plus one point eighty five thousand one take this and divide by the
total.
And in this case we will take this number and divide by the total.
So how do we do that.
Well here we can just select quick calc and give it a second.
So there it is basic values customer id summarized value by count and then show value as sort of no
calculations like.
Percent percent of grand total click OK.
As you can see there we are fifty three point nine percent forty six point seven percent.
And now if we go back to our detailed labels we don't want any decimal points just click zero here and
it will run out for us.
Wonderful.
So that is how we use table calculations in power be-I it is a very simple example of using table calculations
of course they will be more complex situations when you might need to use simple calculations.
But nevertheless it's a good introduction into what table calculations are all about and how to invoke
them in Parbat.
So once again you just need to go to your dropdown over here.
So a quick calc and slick percent of grand total.
And as you can see it adds this information and start percentage of G T S which stands for percentage
of Gruntal.
There we go our pie chart is ready.
And that completes today's tutorial and the next one will perform the next step towards our final visualization.
And I'll look for it then.
Until next time happy analyzing.